Welcome to the code beginners crash course if you have no previous experience with swift or X code but
you really want to get into augmented reality I have prepared a very basic crash course on X code.
What you need to know in order to follow along with that course and so to get familiar with X code we're
going to build a very basic Up Please note this crash course is for beginners only if you have prior
knowledge with swift or X code.
Feel free to skip this video.
Anyway let's get to it.
In the introduction I showed you how to install X code.
Now we're going to use it.
So open it up create a new project a single view application.
We're going to call the project counter app.
You can call it whatever you want.
Press next and create
This is the X code platform.
You should first notice this main dot storyboard file.
Inside of this main storyboard file you should also notice a few controller.
If you controller manages your apps user interface.
This right here is the initial controller as you can tell by going to its attributes and Specter and
you'll see that it's listed as such.
This is our initial view controller.
What does that mean.
So when we first run our up this is the first page that's going to pop up.
This empty white page.
Let's try to run our up make sure to press the play button right here and I'm going to start off by
running it on an iPhone 8 plus simulator press the play button.
And once your app runs it should take a while for your simulator to load unless you already had it up
and running.
But once it does.
Here is our MTV controller.
Nothing interesting just an empty web page.
Before we get into modifying this page this controller we're going to run this app on a physical device.
What do I mean by this.
Well right now I'm going to bring my actual phone plug it into my Mac using USP.
And once you do that X code will detect that a physical device was just plugged into our Mac and it's
going to let me run this up on my device.
Now you might get a message that says oh a sex version lower than deployment target.
This simply means that your phone doesn't have the latest version of us that X code requires to run
apps on it.
So make sure that you update your phone to the latest Iowas version to continue on with this crash course
once you do so.
Make sure to select this option and go to the settings of your project to your general settings.
And before I move any further I just want to make this claim that once we get to the air content you'll
notice that you cannot run the app on a simulator.
Simulators don't have an air processor.
You must use a physical device.
So please learn how to do it now.
Bring your phone.
Plug it into your Mac and choose the physical device option.
And once you do make sure to go to your general settings first make sure this is clicked automatically
manage society and we're going to sign our personal team.
If you don't have a personal team you can easily make one by following the steps on the Web site that
I'm going to pull up right now.
So if I simply go and google chrome and in Google right managing account x code the first link that
pops up makes sure to click it and it shows you how to link your app ID to a personal development team
to use for code signing to run apps on a physical device.
So once you're finished following the steps if you don't have a personal team that shows up you should
be good to go.
So run the app on your device.
Once you're in the app you should get an error telling us that we need our phone to trust any apps that
are made from this developer right here to do so.
Make sure to go to settings inside of settings go to General inside of general scroll all the way down
till you go to device management.
Right there we have to trust this personal team associated to this app idea right here are slim 0 8
7 which is also my G-mail.
So if I click on trust we now trusted our developer team press on OK run the app try it again and we
finally ran our empty white page blank screen up on a physical device.
This is very important.
For once we get to our market you need to run apps on your actual phone not on simulators.
And so I'm just going to close my physical device from here on out.
I'm going to run apps on a simulator.
You should stay on your physical device.
I'm only doing so because it consumes a lot of battery and back into our storyboard.
Remember that I said we would make a very basic app to start.
We're going to add a label to our view controller.
So make sure you're in the third column right here.
Not the first not the second but the third.
I've gone many questions on that for some reason.
And inside of this column in the textfield right label it should search for the label you will buy which
which we can add to the center of our controller.
The vertical and horizontal center what would happen if I right now were up with this label show try
to the label shows up but it's in a very awkward position.
How does that make any sense.
We place it in the perfect center in the middle of our controller why isn't it there why is there an
offset in its position.
Well that's because we have to give it constraints.
We have to pin we have to constrain our label to that position.
So click on the label and we're going to make sure that it's zero pixels from the horizontal center
and zero pixels from the vertical center.
To do that.
Make sure you're clicked on the label.
Click on these two bars right here.
Zero pixels from the horizontal to zero pixels from the vertical.
And these two constraints and our label should be pinned to our horizontal and vertical centers at all
times.
Now that it's pends simply run the app and there you go.
Our label shows up in the middle of our controller because we placed it there.
Now we will add a button to the bottom of our Wii controller.
So right here right button and drag it to the bottom horizontal center just like before.
We're going to make sure it's centered horizontally not vertically just horizontally.
And we're going to have it be 20 pixels from the bottom of the Wii controller.
So right now our button is at the bottom horizontal center.
Now simply run the app to see if everything is in good working order.
And that is all you just added a button and they will to your view controller and we're able to position
them in specific locations.
Now the purpose of our app of our basic app is the fall'n the label at first will have a text of zero.
And whenever we press this button we want to increment our label by one every time.
How do we do this.
How do we add functionality to our button so that it modifies our label.
While this controller if you go to the identity inspector lips I should click on the view controller
not the view.
If you go to its identity inspector you'll see that it's linked to this view controller class.
And so whatever code we write in this class it will modify this view controller there for the first
thing we're going to do is link our button to the view controller class so that we can give it functionality
with code to do so.
Click on your Wii controller and open up the assistant editor
and it should show you the class associated with your Wii controller.
If it doesn't work out that way for whatever reason I know as good as its fair share of bugs simply
go on instead of automatic go on manual.
We're going to manually present a Wii controller to the project directory and the file that you want
to present.
And now to link the button to our class simply drag it by holding the control key and drag the button
all the way to your class to make the link.
We're going to declare it as an I B option and call this IAB action perform or whatever name you want
to give it.
It doesn't matter.
We're going to close the assistant editor and back to our Controller.
What is this IAB action.
Well simply enough this IBM action is connected to our button.
So every time we press this button it's going to trigger this IAB auction function whatever code inside
of it is going to be run to test that we're going to put a print statement right here.
Prince pressing the button.
This Prince Salman should get sugar.
Once we press the button.
So let's try it out.
Run your app and simply enough it does just that.
Now the purpose of this video remember is to change the value of this label.
Every time we press the button first let's give the label an initial value of zero by going to the attribute
inspector.
And instead of a default text of label put it as 0 and now I'm not a big fan of how the width automatically
changed because we changed the text so we're going to give it a width constraint of about 30 pixels
to make sure that it always has a constant width that constraint.
And make sure to center your number to the middle of your label like so now we need to link this label
to our view controller class in order to modify it.
Again open up the assistant editor press on the control key and drag your label all the way to your
class and the Claire-Anne I'd be live with name label clothes the assistant editor and back to your
view controller class.
Why an the outlet.
Well and I'd be action as one you're giving a piece of UI functionality we're giving the button functionality
such that whenever it's pressed it triggers this IAB action function and be outlet is used to modify
a piece of UI.
In this case we're modifying the label simply enough.
And for now when we press the button we're going to change the value of our label to something like
Bob to do so right self that label the text is equal to a string of Bob so self in our class itself
get the label and our label has a property tax that we can modify to equal a string of Bob text string
type.
And we're going to give it the string value strings are denoted by the following quotations.
So run the app.
If I press the button it changes the value of our label to Bob because we changed its text attribute.
Now this label originally as you said before it says.
It's an integer but it's wrapped inside of a string value in the form of text.
Let's try printing it out.
Self-labeled out text and see what we get.
Run the up.
If I press the button it should print a string type and it prints our string.
Notice that it's denoted by the quotation marks but as an optional optionals or simply a way to check
if something has a value or not.
How do we check if this text has a value or not.
Well we're sure that it does.
It has a value of 0 but let's assume that we didn't.
Let's assume this was some random piece of data that we got from the Internet.
The first method to check if an optional has a value or not is to use an IF statement.
So right if that number is equal to self that label text.
If this label text is an actual value if it's not nil print that number
else print value is nil.
Going to delete this for now.
So basically if this optional type contains the value the method succeeds and it prints the number if
the optionals no trigger the else statement.
Run the up press the button and notice that it prints our string without the optional tag because we
unwrapped it with an flet statement.
You can also use a state to unwrap optionals.
It behaves the exact same way as if let's it's just different syntax.
So instead of if right guard left and we simply have to move our statements somewhere else get rid of
these brackets and right after your guard statement right here right else return how this works.
If this optional right here contains a value then run all of the code below it.
If the optional is no simpler return and do nothing.
Don't run any of the code below it.
Let's try it out.
And the statement does not get triggered because this label.
It indeed does have a text value that has a value of zero.
It's not nil.
So this code right under the guard last statement.
It all gets triggered.
Now another way to unwrap things is to forcefully unwrap them forcefully and wrap things a lot in the
course.
It's a very bad habit.
You should never do it if you're releasing it up.
I do it in the course simply because it's all tutorials and the point of the lectures are about etiquette
not optionals
in any case to forcefully unwrap our text optional we're going to print it like so and simply add an
exclamation mark to Conradt our optional run up pressed the button and notice that the optional tag
isn't there.
We forcefully unwrapped our variable our property and noticed how convenient this is.
Although this can be pretty bad.
Imagine you are getting some random data from the web processing it in your app.
So in that time that data can be no.
If you try to forcefully unwrap something that's Snel your app will crash.
Let's try it out.
I'm going to make a variable var some variable of type optional string equal to nil.
So this variable doesn't actually have about you know what would happen if I tried to forcefully unwrap
it.
Does some variable add your exclamation mark pressed the button.
And your crushes
that is why we use optional chaining like if lets Guard.
Let's try this with an athlete.
A-flat value is equal to some variable if some variable has a value.
Print has value else.
Print no value.
Or you know what.
Instead of printing the string let's print the value itself.
If it even has one match it doesn't but let's do it anyway.
Run the up if I press the button.
It prints no value.
This is why this is called safely unwrapping because it lets you fail gracefully instead of crossing
the OP right here in this statement.
You would be able to show your user an alert oh hey this variable that you tried to access doesn't actually
have a value.
Try again or something depending on if you're trying to make this would work the exact same way with
the guard statements.
If you just follow the syntax that we had before.
OK so that's it for optionals.
And notice how we declared this as a VAR we can also declared as a let let simply means that we don't
expect to modify this variable.
It's immutable anyway.
We don't really care about this very well let's delete it.
We're going to delete this optional changing as well.
We don't need it anymore.
Going back to our label this label as you remember gives us bad text.
We want to modify this text and make it so that it increments our label by one every time.
So make you a variable number var number of type integer and it is equal to zero.
Every time we press the button we're going to increment this number by one every time to do so right.
Self don't number plus equals 1.
This is shorthand notation for take the current value of the number and increment it by one every time.
We're going to print our number out print self-taught number.
Run the app press on your button and it increments our number by 1 every time like we expected.
Now we just need to set our label text equal to this number variable.
We can do so by writing self don't label that text is equal to number going to remove this print statement
for now.
And we should be expecting an error pretty soon.
Any time now.
All right.
There it is.
And so why doesn't this work.
Well we're trying to make a string equal to an integer type which doesn't make much sense.
These are two different types.
This is a string.
And so to string ify this number simply enclose it with string brackets like so.
So take this number make it into a string and then set it to our label dot text property and you are
finally done.
We're on your up press the button and everything works fine.
Now here's a challenge trying to have this label decrement by one every time.
Paused the video and give it a try.
Simply enough instead of self-doubting number plus equals one self-doubting number minus equals 1.
So take its current value and minus one every time.
Run the up press on the button and everything works as expected.
And this is it for the crash course.
If you had programming experience beforehand but you simply were not familiar with the X code platform
you should be good to go now.
I'll see you in the course.